RETIREMENT income
What happens when you reach age 55
When you reach age 55, a new Retirement Account will be created for you and your Special Account will subsequently be closed. Find out more about the key changes to your CPF accounts and the things you need to do before and after you turn 55.
Facebook
Telegram
WhatsApp
Email
LinkedIn
X
Notice
Our CPF hotlines are temporarily unavailable due to technical difficulties related to Singtel. We apologise for any inconvenience caused. For urgent assistance, please reach us through our
Text Us
service, and we will respond as soon as we can.
Overview
How it works
What to do
FAQs
Overview
How it works
What to do
FAQs
Overview
Key changes
These are the key changes to your CPF accounts when you turn 55.
1
Creation of new Retirement Account and closure of Special Account
Your Retirement Account will be created for you on your 55th birthday.
Your Special Account and/or Ordinary Account savings will then be transferred to your Retirement Account, up to your
Full Retirement Sum
.
Savings in the Retirement Account earn the same long-term interest rate as the Special Account. Your Retirement Account savings will be used to provide you with monthly payouts in retirement.
Your Special Account will subsequently be closed, and any remaining Special Account savings will be transferred to your Ordinary Account.
https://www.cpf.gov.sg/service/article/what-are-the-retirement-sums-basic-retirement-sum-brs-full-retirement-sum-frs-and-enhanced-retirement-sum-ers
false
More on Retirement sums
2
Increase in the maximum top-up you can receive
The
maximum amount of top-ups you can receive
in your Retirement Account is increased to the
Enhanced Retirement Sum (ERS)
. By topping up your Retirement Account, you will receive higher monthly payouts in retirement.
false
3
Withdrawal for immediate retirement needs
After setting aside your Full Retirement Sum (FRS) in your new Retirement Account, you will be able to withdraw your excess savings in your Ordinary Account. If you are unable to set aside your FRS, you may still be able to withdraw up to $5,000 from age 55.
false
Let us walk you through the changes
How it works
Learn how your Full Retirement Sum is set aside in your Retirement Account to support your retirement goal
When you reach age 55, your CPF savings will be transferred from your Special Account, followed by your Ordinary Account to your Retirement Account up to your
Full Retirement Sum (FRS)
.
Savings above your FRS will remain in your Ordinary Account and are withdrawable.
If your Special Account savings are more than sufficient to set aside your Full Retirement Sum
CPF savings from your Special Account savings will be transferred to the Retirement Account up to your Full Retirement Sum. The remaining savings in your Special Account will then be transferred to your Ordinary Account and will be withdrawable.
false
If your Special Account and Ordinary Account savings are not sufficient to set aside your Full Retirement Sum
Up to $5,000 of your savings may be set aside in your Ordinary Account. This amount will be withdrawable. Any remaining savings will be transferred to your Retirement Account.
false
If you own a property
You can choose to set aside up to half of the Full Retirement Sum (FRS) using your property, and to
withdraw your savings above the Basic Retirement Sum (BRS)
in your Retirement Account. With this, when you sell your property in future, you will need to
refund
the CPF savings withdrawn (including accrued interest). The refunds will be used to restore your Retirement Account up to your FRS.
false
When you turn 55, your
CPF contribution rates
will decrease. Your working contributions will be allocated to your Ordinary Account, MediSave Account, and Retirement Account. If you have met your Full Retirement Sum (FRS) in your Retirement Account, these contributions will be credited to your Ordinary Account.
false
What to do
Things to do before you turn 55
Finance your property with Ordinary Account savings
If you intend to continue using your Ordinary Account savings to finance an existing home or buy a new property shortly after turning 55, reserve the amount you need in your Ordinary Account so that it is not transferred to your Retirement Account when you turn 55. Ordinary Account savings transferred to Retirement Account can no longer be used to finance a home.
https://www.cpf.gov.sg/roa
false
Reserve savings for home payments
Make informed decisions on your CPF savings with the Retirement Payout Planner
As you take a step closer to retirement, explore the Retirement Payout Planner to help you make informed decisions on your CPF savings. Set a retirement payout goal and discover how you can optimise your CPF savings to achieve it.
https://www.cpf.gov.sg/member/tools-and-services/planners/cpf-planner-retirement-income
false
Go to planner
Make or review your CPF nomination
Consider making or reviewing your CPF nomination for peace of mind that your loved ones are protected by your CPF savings.
https://www.cpf.gov.sg/member/tools-and-services/forms-e-applications/make-a-cpf-nomination?deeplink=true
false
Make a nomination
Things to do after you turn 55
Enhance the security and protect your CPF savings
To protect your CPF savings, the default Daily Withdrawal Limit (DWL) for online withdrawal is set at $2,000, with the option for you to adjust it. You are advised to increase the limit only if there is a need to withdraw more and to lower it after the withdrawal to safeguard your CPF savings.
The DWL is not applicable to withdrawals made in-person at our CPF Service Centres.
For added security, you can activate the CPF Withdrawal Lock via Account settings which instantly reduces your daily withdrawal limit to $0, disabling all online withdrawals.
/content/web/sg/en/member/ds/account-settings.html
false
Go to Account settings
Continue to grow your retirement savings
Start planning for your retirement. To receive higher retirement payouts when you turn 65, you can consider
topping up
your Retirement Account up to the prevailing
Enhanced Retirement Sum (ERS)
. This top up to ERS is only available to members from the time they turn 55. You may enjoy tax relief for cash top-ups made to your Retirement Account.
If you are eligible for the
Matched Retirement Savings Scheme
, you will also receive matching grants, from the Government on cash top-ups made.
https://www.cpf.gov.sg/member/tools-and-services/forms-e-applications/cash-top-ups-and-cpf-transfers-for-retirement
false
Make a single cash top-up
Set up recurring cash top-ups
Withdrawal for immediate retirement needs
You can make lump sum
withdrawals
for your immediate retirement needs when you need extra funds.
To withdraw your CPF savings:
Update your bank account with CPF Board via Account settings. If you would like to withdraw via PayNow, please select “PayNow NRIC-linked bank account” as your registered bank account. A 12-hour cooling period applies before your updated bank account takes effect. For update to all other bank accounts that are not PayNow NRIC-linked, it will generally take up to two working days for the account to be activated after your bank confirms that the account belongs to you. Do plan ahead to avoid any delay to your withdrawal plans.
Review and update your preferred online Daily Withdrawal Limit (DWL). Increasing the online DWL is subject to enhanced authentication and a 12-hour cooling period before the new limit takes effect. Do plan ahead to avoid any delay to your withdrawal plans.
Plan ahead for large withdrawals above the maximum online DWL of $50,000 and make the withdrawals over multiple days. Otherwise,
make an appointment
(select ‘Retirement Income’ and ‘Withdrawal above maximum online Daily Withdrawal Limit’) to visit a CPF Service Centre.
You can setup your bank account or adjust your withdrawal limit via
Account settings
.
https://www.cpf.gov.sg/member/tools-and-services/forms-e-applications/withdraw-cpf-retirement-needs
false
Withdraw CPF savings for immediate needs
FAQs
Common questions
Learn More
What should I know about topping up my retirement savings?
How do I apply to reserve my Ordinary Account (OA) savings, so that they will not be transferred to my Retirement Account (RA) and remain in OA for my housing payments after I turn 55 years old?
How much CPF savings can I withdraw from age 55 to 64?
View all
https://www.cpf.gov.sg/service/sub-categories?category=P_M_RI
false