BUDGET 2025 SPEECH
ONWARD TOGETHER FOR A BETTER TOMORROW
A. Introduction .............................................................................. 3
B. Tackling Cost Pressures .............................................................. 9
C. Advancing our Growth Frontier ............................................... 17
Enhancing our Technology and Innovation Engines........................ 19
Strengthening our Enterprise Ecosystem ........................................ 24
Tackling Infrastructure and Resource Constraints........................... 30
D. Equipping Workers Throughout Life ......................................... 38
Encouraging Lifelong Learning ........................................................ 39
Supporting our Enterprises in Workforce Transformation .............. 43
Strengthening Support for Workers ................................................ 49
E. Building a Sustainable City ...................................................... 53
Greening and Enhancing our Transport Sector ............................... 54
Securing a Climate-Resilient Future ................................................ 57
Embracing Sustainability as a Lifestyle ........................................... 60
F. Nurturing a Caring and Inclusive Society .................................. 62
Improving the Resilience of Vulnerable Families ............................ 62
Building a Singapore Made for Families.......................................... 65
Enabling Seniors to Age Well .......................................................... 68
Empowering Persons with Disabilities ............................................ 73
Page 1 of 98

G. Rallying as One United People ................................................. 78
Recognising Singaporeans’ Contributions....................................... 78
Strengthening Our National Identity and Our Community Bonds .. 80
H. Fiscal Position ......................................................................... 87
Building A Fairer and More Resilient Tax System ............................ 87
FY2024 and FY2025 Fiscal Position ................................................. 90
Medium-Term Fiscal Outlook ......................................................... 92
I. Conclusion .............................................................................. 95
Page 2 of 98

A. Introduction
Mr Speaker, Sir
1. I move that Parliament approve the financial policy of the
Government for the financial year 1 April 2025 to 31 March 2026.
2. 2025 marks our 60th year of independence. It has been a
remarkable journey, reflecting the grit and resilience of generations
of Singaporeans in building our nation.
3. 60 years ago, the world was very different:
a. It was the height of the Cold War, with the Berlin Wall
standing as a stark symbol of division between the United
States and the Soviet Union.
b. In Asia, the Cold War spilled over into proxy fights, with
devastating wars in Vietnam, Laos, and Cambodia.
Page 3 of 98

4. As a fledgling nation, Singapore faced monumental challenges.
a. Racial tensions were high. Unemployment was rampant.
b. The withdrawal of British forces shortly after independence
dealt a heavy blow to our defence and our economy.
c. In a world divided by blocs, we had no hinterland and no
natural allies. Survival seemed improbable.
5. Yet in that crucible of fire, our pioneers forged a nation.
a. We refused to be pawns in someone else’s game. We
turned our vulnerabilities into strength.
b. We plugged into the world as an open and neutral hub for
commerce and diplomacy.
c. Together, we defined our relevance to the world and built
this nation.
Page 4 of 98

6. Today, we face a new global contest. The stark divides of the
Cold War have given way to a fragmented and troubled world. New
walls are being erected – not of concrete, but in the form of
economic and trade barriers.
7. And once again, we will have to find ways to navigate a
turbulent external environment.
8. We have done well so far. We bounced back strongly from the
Covid-19 pandemic, and ended last year on a strong footing.
a. Our economy grew by 4.4%.
b. Inflation continued to ease.
c. Singaporeans saw wage increases that outpaced inflation.
The median income of resident workers rose by 3.4% above
inflation.
d. Income inequality, after government taxes and transfers, is
at its lowest since 2000.
9. All this has given us good momentum for our next phase.
Page 5 of 98

10. But we expect greater global uncertainty and downside risks.
a. The US and China are locked in a fierce contest for global
supremacy.
b. Neither side wants to come to blows. But both know that
economic heft and technological prowess are key to
winning this global race.
c. And both are prepared to take more assertive actions to
advance their own interests, even at the expense of
established international norms.
d. So we can expect escalating attempts at containment and
counter-containment, with ripple effects that will inevitably
draw in other countries, including Singapore.
11. All these pressures will reshape the global economy and
dampen prospects for global growth. As a small and open economy,
we will feel the impact.
12. For 2025, we expect a more moderate outlook. Growth is
projected at 1% to 3%, while inflation is expected to average 1.5% to
2.5%.
Page 6 of 98

13. But despite the uncertainties, we can look ahead with a degree
of confidence. Singapore today is far stronger than we were 60 years
ago.
a. We have developed a strong and well-diversified economy,
supported by a highly skilled workforce.
b. We have built up a robust SAF and a strong diplomatic
network, to uphold our sovereignty and security.
c. We have forged a common Singaporean identity, grounded
in our shared values and experiences, and our commitment
to one another and our nation.
14. This is the legacy of generations of Singaporeans, with each one
running a good race. The baton has now been passed, and it is our
turn to take Singapore forward. This Budget builds on previous
Budgets, not only to address today’s challenges, but to plan ahead
and secure Singapore’s future.
15. Budget 2025 is a Budget for all Singaporeans.
Page 7 of 98

16. It’s also a Budget shaped together with all Singaporeans. It
further advances our Forward Singapore agenda, which incorporates
your aspirations and views, and seeks to keep our society strong and
united.
17. In this Budget, we will work with you to:
a. Tackle cost pressures;
b. Advance our growth frontier;
c. Equip workers throughout life;
d. Build a sustainable city;
e. Nurture a caring and inclusive society; and
f. Rally as one united people.
18. And I will go through each of these in turn.
Page 8 of 98

B. Tackling Cost Pressures
19. Let me start by addressing concerns over rising costs, for both
individuals and businesses.
20. Global inflation rose sharply in 2022, following the outbreak of
the war in Ukraine, and remained high after that due to energy, food,
and supply chain disruptions. Like many other countries, Singapore
was impacted.
21. That’s why we have been providing additional support
measures over the last two years to cushion the impact on
Singaporeans.
a. Last year, I enhanced the Assurance Package by $1.9 billion.
b. The Package has helped to fully offset the effects of inflation
for lower-income households, and to provide a significant
cushion for middle-income households.
Page 9 of 98

22. We will continue to provide support for as long as needed,
within our means. While inflation is expected to ease further this
year, prices remain high. Singaporeans are still adjusting to these
new price realities. Some have had to tighten their belts, rethink
spending habits, or make difficult trade-offs to manage their
expenses.
23. Therefore, in this Budget, I will provide additional support for
Singaporeans.
a. First, I will provide $800 in CDC Vouchers to every
Singaporean household.
i. The first $500 will be disbursed in May this year. And
the remaining $300 will be disbursed in January next
year.
ii. As with previous CDC Vouchers, half can be used at
participating supermarkets. And the other half can be
used at participating heartland merchants and
hawkers.
Page 10 of 98

b. Second, I will provide additional U-Save rebates to help
households cope with their utilities expenses. Eligible HDB
households will receive up to $760 this financial year. This is
double the amount of regular U-Save rebates. It will cover
about six months of utilities expenses for those living in 1-
and 2-room flats, and three months of utilities expenses for
those living in 3- and 4-room flats.
c. Third, I will provide more support to families with children.
They will receive $500 in LifeSG credits for each Singaporean
child aged 12 and below this year. These credits are the
same as the LifeSG credits we gave to national servicemen
last year. And parents can use them to defray their
household expenses.
d. Every Singaporean aged 13 to 20 this year will also receive a
$500 top-up to their Edusave account, or their Post-
Secondary Education Account. They can use this top-up to
pay for their approved education-related expenses.
Page 11 of 98

24. More support will be extended to individuals and families who
face greater financial stress.
a. We will increase the rates for the ComCare Assistance
schemes, to better support lower-income households with
basic living expenses. For example, a 1-person household on
Long-Term Assistance will receive an additional $120 each
month, bringing the monthly cash assistance to $760. Those
supported by Short-to-Medium-Term Assistance will also
receive more than before, based on the household’s
composition, needs, and income.
b. In tandem, we will increase the Singapore Allowance, which
is an ex-gratia payment that some of our pensioners receive.
It will increase from $350 to $390 each month, to support
those with smaller pensions. And the monthly pension
ceiling will also increase to $1,320.
c. Through the ComCare Interim Assistance scheme, we will
also provide more support for community organisations as
well, to help households in need.
Page 12 of 98

25. We are also paying close attention to public housing.
a. We have ramped up our BTO supply decisively. Application
rates for BTO flats have stabilised, and are now well below
pre-Covid-19 levels.
b. We will continue with the robust supply pipeline. Over the
next three years, MND will launch more than 50,000 new
flats in a wide range of locations, including in Woodlands,
Bayshore, and Mount Pleasant.
c. Last year, more than eight in 10 first-timer families who
collected keys to their BTO flats were able to service their
monthly mortgage loans with little or zero out-of-pocket
cash. To put in perspective, this is a level of affordability
that residents in other major cities like London, Sydney, and
Hong Kong do not enjoy. But we have been able to achieve
this in Singapore. And we will continue to keep public
housing affordable and accessible for all.
Page 13 of 98

26. Some Singaporeans prefer resale flats as they have shorter
waiting times. But they are understandably concerned about the
higher prices of resale flats. Our cooling and supply measures will
eventually help to stabilise the resale market. Meanwhile, we will
offer more options to home seekers who want their flats sooner.
a. This year, HDB will launch around 3,800 flats with a waiting
time of less than three years. This is about 20% of the full
year’s BTO supply. And we will continue to increase the
supply of such flats in the coming years.
b. HDB also launched the largest ever Sale of Balance Flats
exercise last week, with around 5,500 flats available island-
wide, and it plans to hold another balance flat exercise later
this year.
27. Higher prices also affect our businesses, many of whom are
grappling with the higher costs of rent and labour.
Page 14 of 98

28. So I will introduce a 50% Corporate Income Tax rebate in the
Year of Assessment 2025.
a. Not all companies are profitable, and some may not benefit
from such a rebate. So, I will provide every active company
that employed at least one local employee last year a
minimum benefit of $2,000.
b. The total benefit that each company will receive will be
capped at $40,000.
29. Despite facing higher cost pressures, I’m glad that many
businesses remain committed to uplifting the wages of lower-wage
workers.
a. The Government will continue to share this responsibility
with employers.
b. And taking into account feedback from employers, I will
enhance the Progressive Wage Credit Scheme, by increasing
the Government’s co-funding levels for wage increases from
30% in 2025 to 40%, and from 15% in 2026 to 20%.
Page 15 of 98

30. The measures we have taken in recent years, and are taking in
this Budget, will help to mitigate the impact of rising costs.
31. But in the longer term, the best way to adjust to higher prices is
to grow the economy and increase productivity, so that all
Singaporeans can enjoy higher real incomes and better standards of
living. And let me turn to our strategies next in these areas.
Page 16 of 98

C. Advancing our Growth Frontier
32. We will take bold and decisive actions to advance our growth
frontier.
33. The Singapore economy now operates at a higher level. But we
cannot afford to stand still. Global economic competition is
intensifying. And many other countries and cities are pressing ahead.
If we fail to stay competitive, we will be left behind. We must
therefore redouble efforts to grow our economy, and keep it dynamic
and vibrant.
34. Growth has a direct impact on the collective wellbeing of
Singaporeans.
a. Last year, our economy grew by more than 4%. This meant
higher wages and real incomes for many, many workers.
b. It will be hard to achieve 4% growth on a sustained basis.
But if we can secure an average of 2% to 3% growth per
annum over the next decade, we will be able to create
better jobs and opportunities, and improve standards of
living for all Singaporeans.
Page 17 of 98

35. To achieve this, we must continue to uphold several
fundamentals. That includes:
a. Maintaining sound monetary and fiscal policies;
b. Harnessing market forces to drive efficiency and innovation;
c. Staying open to people and ideas to strengthen our
capabilities;
d. And deepening our tripartite partnership as a cornerstone of
economic stability.
36. At the same time, our approach and strategy must adapt to
changing circumstances.
a. At this stage of development, we can no longer compete on
cost alone. Instead, we must differentiate ourselves by
producing high-value solutions for the world.
b. To take our economy forward, this Budget will emphasise
three key areas: technology and innovation, our enterprise
ecosystem, as well as our infrastructure investments amidst
resource constraints.
Page 18 of 98

Enhancing our Technology and Innovation Engines
37. First, we will enhance our technology and innovation engines.
This is crucial because new ideas, innovation and technological
progress are the drivers of growth.
38. We see this in the US, where the technology sector, powered by
Silicon Valley and companies like Apple, Amazon, Alphabet and Tesla,
has helped to propel the country’s dynamism and innovation.
39. We don’t operate at the same scale as the US. But we can still
excel in specific areas of innovation and technology.
a. We have a new generation of local tech companies like Grab,
Sea and Razer, which have established themselves as
regional or industry leaders.
b. We are home to the world’s top tech companies. They
already have substantial activities here, and are keen to do
more out of Singapore, including in new frontier areas like
artificial intelligence (or AI) and quantum computing.
Page 19 of 98

40. We also have considerable strengths in several industries.
a. We are a key player in semiconductors, supplying more than
10% of chips and producing one-fifth of semiconductor
equipment worldwide.
b. Just as silicon chips fuel the tech industry, DNA chips are
unlocking new frontiers in life sciences. These chips enable
scientists to sequence DNA, which can be used to diagnose
diseases or identify patient risks. They demand high levels
of precision engineering, to implant millions of DNA strands
onto a glass or silicon surface. Singapore alone produces
more than 80% of the world’s DNA chips.
c. In fact, we are a key node for the broader life sciences
sector. Eight of the world’s top 10 pharmaceutical
companies have manufacturing operations here. We are
also a major producer of advanced medical devices,
including cardiac implants and hearing aids.
Page 20 of 98

41. Take the example of American medtech company Illumina. It is
the global leader in next-generation genetic sequencing instruments
and DNA chips.
a. Illumina has a strong footprint in Singapore. We serve as its
Asia-Pacific headquarters, and host a key R&D and
manufacturing site here.
b. This is Illumina’s genome sequencer, which is designed and
manufactured in Singapore. Engineers across different
disciplines worked together to design this. When Covid-19
first emerged, it was such a machine that first sequenced
the virus. It did so within hours, allowing scientists around
the world to start developing drugs and vaccines.
c. Illumina’s presence has benefited other Singapore
enterprises, like Venture Corporation and Sunningdale Tech.
Their partnerships with Illumina have helped them to build
new innovation capabilities and expand to new areas.
Page 21 of 98

42. To enhance our technology and innovation engines, we have to
anchor more high-quality investments. There have been attempts
internationally through BEPS 2.0 to ensure that multinational
enterprises (or MNEs) pay a minimum level of taxes worldwide, or to
tilt the playing field in favour of governments. But in reality, MNEs
wield considerable leverage and options. And that is why
governments everywhere are still spending significant amounts to
attract investments.
43. We cannot afford to outbid the major economies. But we do
need to set aside sufficient resources to maximise our competitive
strengths. So I will top up the National Productivity Fund by $3
billion.
44. Our R&D efforts are critical in powering our innovation and
technology engines.
a. The Government has consistently invested about 1% of GDP
annually in R&D over the last 20 years.
Page 22 of 98

b. These investments have borne fruit. For example, our
biotech ecosystem would not be where it is today without
Biopolis, which we built more than 20 years ago. It also
served as a platform for biotech talent to gather and share
knowledge – knowledge that then diffused into our
education system, which uplifted a new generation of
Singaporeans.
45. To sustain this momentum, we must invest to keep our R&D
infrastructure at the cutting edge.
a. For our biotech sector, we will refresh our public
biosciences and medtech research infrastructure in the
greater one-north area. This will provide state-of-the-art
facilities, promote collaboration within our research
community, and enable faster translation of research into
commercial solutions.
b. In the semiconductor space, we will develop a new national
semiconductor R&D fabrication facility. This will provide
industry-grade tools for researchers and industry partners to
prototype and test new semiconductor innovations.
c. These developments will cost about $1 billion.
Page 23 of 98

46. We will also support companies that undertake R&D and
innovation in partnership with other stakeholders. We have a good
suite of schemes today, which we will further enhance. And more
details are in the Annex to the Budget.
Strengthening our Enterprise Ecosystem
47. Second, we will strengthen our enterprise ecosystem.
a. Over the years, we have developed a stronger pool of
globally competitive startups and enterprises.
b. But there is still more to be done.
48. We want Singapore to be a place where exciting ventures
develop and grow into the leading enterprises of the future.
Page 24 of 98

a. We already have a good pipeline of such promising
enterprises. For example, AEM Holdings is a Singapore-
headquartered provider of semiconductor testing solutions.
Its products serve a critical role in the chip production
process, by helping to detect manufacturing defects or
design flaws. AEM today has a global footprint, with
manufacturing plants and R&D teams across Asia, Europe,
and the US.
b. We will provide more support for enterprises to scale up,
execute their growth plans, and compete on the global
stage. In particular, I will extend our support schemes for
internationalisation, and for mergers and acquisitions. And
again, the details are in the Annex to the Budget.
c. Some ventures are started by global companies, or by
experienced entrepreneurs. As our investment promotion
agency, EDB has close links with these multinational firms
and entrepreneurs. So EDB will launch a Global Founder
Programme later this year to encourage global founders to
anchor and grow more new ventures in Singapore.
Page 25 of 98

49. To succeed, all enterprises must invest in technology to
enhance their competitiveness and productivity. Enterprises can
adopt off-the-shelf solutions like AI-powered analytics and digital
marketing tools. We will continue to encourage the adoption of such
solutions through initiatives like the Productivity Solutions Grant and
the SMEs Go Digital.
50. Beyond a certain stage, enterprises will need AI solutions,
which are tailored to their needs and integrated into their business
processes and systems. To support this, I will set aside up to $150
million for a new Enterprise Compute Initiative. Under this
initiative, eligible enterprises will be partnered with major cloud
service providers to access AI tools and computing power, as well as
expert consultancy services. This will help enterprises leverage AI
more effectively in their transformation journey.
Page 26 of 98

51. Companies also need capital to execute their growth plans.
a. We now have a more vibrant financing ecosystem, backed by
a growing network of angel investors, venture capitalists,
and private equity firms.
b. This is complemented by Government investment funds
which invest in promising companies alongside commercial
partners like 65 Equity Partners and Heliconia Capital.
c. Over the past five years, we have set aside over $1.8 billion
to support enterprise growth through investment funds.
Like other private equity funds, our investments generally
span a 3- to 7-year horizon. To help enterprises with longer
growth trajectories, we will deploy some of our funds as
patient capital, with longer investment horizons, to ensure
that promising companies have the resources they need to
thrive.
Page 27 of 98

52. Globally, we have seen the emergence of a private credit
market which offers innovative financing solutions to enterprises.
a. But few of these private credit funds focus on Asia, much
less Singapore-based enterprises.
b. So we will introduce a new $1 billion Private Credit Growth
Fund.
c. This will provide more financing options for high-growth
local enterprises. And the Minister for Trade and Industry
will share more at the Committee of Supply.
53. As enterprises scale up, they may also list on a stock exchange
to access more capital. Larger companies with significant overseas
revenues will typically choose to list abroad to be closer to their main
consumer markets. We recognise and accept these as commercial
decisions. But there has been feedback that the Singapore Stock
Exchange is not attractive, even for companies that are focused
mainly on Singapore and Southeast Asia.
Page 28 of 98

54. And that is why we set up the Equities Market Review Group,
chaired by Minister Chee Hong Tat, to strengthen the attractiveness
of our stock market to such listings and investments.
a. The Review Group has developed its first set of measures.
They include several tax-related recommendations which
have been submitted to MOF, just in time for the Budget.
b. I accept their recommendations and will introduce tax
incentives for Singapore-based companies and fund
managers that choose to list in Singapore and grow their
economic activities here. I will also introduce a tax
incentive for fund managers which invest substantially in
Singapore-listed equities, to encourage more investment in
our capital markets.
c. The Review Group will share more details on its measures in
the coming days.
Page 29 of 98

Tackling Infrastructure and Resource Constraints
55. Third, to unlock our growth potential, we must invest in world-
class infrastructure and find innovative ways to overcome our
resource constraints.
56. Singapore thrives as a hub economy, facilitating the flow of
people, capital, goods, and ideas. To sustain this position, we must
ensure excellent connectivity with the rest of the world, both
physically and digitally.
a. Development on the Tuas Port is progressing well, and
Singapore recorded new highs last year in vessel arrival
tonnage, container throughput and bunker sales. This
reinforces our role as a leading maritime hub.
b. We have achieved islandwide 5G coverage, and we are
upgrading our Nationwide Broadband Network to deliver
speeds up to 10 times faster. This will enhance digital
connectivity for businesses and individuals.
Page 30 of 98

57. Our air hub is another key pillar of connectivity. We will break
ground for Changi Airport Terminal 5 in the coming months. When
completed, Terminal 5 will expand our airport’s capacity by more
than 50%, and will ensure that Singapore remains a critical gateway
for global travel and trade.
a. To ensure sufficient resources to develop our air hub, I will
top up the Changi Airport Development Fund by $5 billion.
b. With the President’s concurrence, the Government will also
provide a guarantee to Changi Airport Group. This will help
to lower the cost of borrowings needed to develop Terminal
5 and supporting infrastructure in Changi East.
58. Besides infrastructure, we also need better solutions to address
our resource constraints, and enhance our economic resilience.
a. A generation ago, our critical constraint was water.
b. We tackled this head-on, developed NEWater and built our
water industry.
Page 31 of 98

c. Today, we face a different challenge. The industries of the
future – artificial intelligence, semiconductors,
biopharmaceuticals – are highly energy-intensive.
d. To meet these growing energy needs and to bring down our
carbon emissions at the same time, we will need more clean
power.
e. Expanding access to clean energy is therefore a major
national imperative.
59. One immediate solution is to import low-carbon electricity from
the region.
a. We are making progress on such electricity imports. We’ve
started a pilot with Peninsular Malaysia, and expanded the
capacity of a power trading initiative with Laos, Thailand and
Malaysia.
b. By 2035, we expect that about one-third of our projected
electricity demand can be met through electricity imports.
Page 32 of 98

60. But beyond imports, we also need to have our own domestic
sources of clean power to ensure greater energy resilience.
a. Our options are inherently limited, because we do not have
the natural resources nor the land to meet our needs using
hydro, wind, or solar power.
b. We have been closely evaluating the use of low-carbon
hydrogen for power generation.
c. But there are inherent challenges in the production, storage
and transportation of hydrogen, which make it hard to scale
up in a commercially viable manner.
61. One established low-carbon energy source that is used globally
is nuclear power.
a. We had considered the possibility of using nuclear power
back in 2010.
b. We assessed then that conventional nuclear technologies
were not suitable for Singapore.
Page 33 of 98

c. But we continued to keep a close eye on nuclear energy
developments, and progressively built capabilities in nuclear
safety over the past decade to keep our options open.
d. Since then, we have seen significant advancements in
nuclear technologies.
e. One such development is that of small modular reactors (or
SMRs), which have better safety features than conventional
reactors. Presently, only a few SMRs have been deployed
around the world, but many more could become operational
by the end of this decade.
f. Interest in nuclear energy is also increasing worldwide. In
our region, several countries are planning to include nuclear
in their energy mix. Malaysia and Indonesia also have
experience in nuclear technologies and have operated
research reactors for some time.
Page 34 of 98

62. We will therefore study the potential deployment of nuclear
energy in Singapore. We will take further steps to systematically
build up our capabilities in this area.
a. We have signed agreements with the US on civil nuclear
cooperation.
b. We are also working on similar cooperation with other
countries, which have capabilities and experience in civilian
nuclear power, especially SMRs.
c. Within the Government, we will reorganise ourselves to
provide greater emphasis on this work. We will need new
capabilities to evaluate options, and to consider if there is a
solution that Singapore can deploy in a safe and cost-
effective way.
d. And these capabilities will also be needed for nuclear safety,
which will become more salient given the growing regional
interest in nuclear power.
Page 35 of 98

63. Be it electricity imports, hydrogen or nuclear, we will need to
make major investments in new infrastructure.
a. And that’s why we established the Future Energy Fund last
year.
b. I will top up the Fund by $5 billion.
c. This will further support our critical undertaking to secure
clean power for Singapore.
64. Our efforts to enhance our technology and innovation engines,
strengthen our enterprise ecosystem, invest in new infrastructure
and overcome our resource constraints, will enable us to refresh our
value proposition and stay ahead in a rapidly changing world.
65. Over the decades, we can see how Singapore’s economic
success has translated to tangible improvements in our lives.
a. In the past, tertiary graduates had fewer job options to
choose from, with career paths revolving around a few
traditional areas.
b. These days, the job landscape is far more diverse.
Page 36 of 98

c. Those with an interest in science and engineering can pursue
opportunities in advanced manufacturing, IT, biomedical
science and sustainability, amongst others. Those with
strengths in creativity and people-oriented roles can explore
careers in the creative industry, lifestyle and hospitality
sectors, as well as sports and fitness.
d. Our thriving care economy also offers a wider range of
opportunities, including in early childhood education,
healthcare and elder care.
66. This is what economic dynamism and growth can deliver for our
people. And so we will keep our economy strong and vibrant, and
ensure that there are even more opportunities and good jobs for all
Singaporeans – both now and in the future.
Page 37 of 98

D. Equipping Workers Throughout Life
67. A growing economy creates more well-paying jobs. But the jobs
of the future will not be the same as the jobs of today. Rapid
technological advances, especially in AI, will transform workplaces
and jobs.
68. Just a few years ago, tools like ChatGPT didn’t even exist. Now
there is a rapidly expanding ecosystem of AI models. They can
generate high-quality text, images, and videos. They can write better
programming code than many experts, assist in complex problem-
solving, and even help to accelerate research breakthroughs.
69. AI will get better in the future, and other new disruptive
technologies will emerge. It is hard to predict how they will impact
specific industries and jobs. But one thing is clear: our workers must
be equipped with the skills to stay competitive and relevant. That’s
why we are investing heavily in lifelong learning, and have made
significant moves to strengthen SkillsFuture as a key pillar of our
social compact.
Page 38 of 98

Encouraging Lifelong Learning
70. At last year’s Budget, I introduced the SkillsFuture Level-Up
Programme, to support mid-career Singaporeans in getting a
significant skills reboot.
a. Under the programme, all Singaporeans aged 40 years and
above will get $4,000 in SkillsFuture Credit.
b. From next month, individuals can apply for a training
allowance of up to $3,000 per month for selected full-time
courses. They will have 24 months’ worth of allowance,
which is up to $72,000 per worker.
71. Some Singaporeans prefer to continue working, while upskilling
on a part-time basis.
a. Take for example, Ms Zarina Binti Abdul Rahman. She
started out as an intern in Randstad Sourceright, a global
recruitment agency, and is now an office administrator.
Page 39 of 98

b. She wants to upgrade her skills in business operations, but is
unable to pursue full-time studies due to her work and family
commitments. So she is pursuing a part-time Diploma in
Business Practice at Nanyang Polytechnic.
72. While workers like Zarina continue to earn their salaries during
part-time training, they also incur training-related expenses.
a. We will therefore extend the training allowance to workers
undergoing part-time training.
b. They can enjoy a fixed allowance of $300 per month to
defray their learning expenses.
c. And this part-time training allowance will be implemented
early next year.
d. The Minister for Education will share more at the Committee
of Supply.
Page 40 of 98

73. We will also give a further boost to our lower-wage workers,
who will benefit from early upskilling.
a. Today, our lower-wage workers can tap on the Workfare Skills
Support Scheme from the age of 30.
b. The scheme provides employers with absentee payroll
support when they sponsor workers for training. It also
provides workers with a training allowance when they go for
self-sponsored training.
74. Currently, the Workfare Skills Support Scheme is designed
primarily to support short courses that are completed over a few
days. But lower-wage workers stand to benefit more from longer-
form courses that provide more substantial reskilling and upskilling.
75. We will therefore introduce an enhanced tier of support under
the Workfare Skills Support for lower-wage workers. This enhanced
support will be modelled after the SkillsFuture Level-Up Programme,
and will benefit lower-wage workers when they turn 30. So this will
start earlier at age 30. The Minister for Manpower will share more
details at the Committee of Supply (COS).
Page 41 of 98

76. Our Institutes of Higher Learning are key partners in supporting
lifelong learning. They equip our workers with relevant skills for a
changing economy, and provide a dedicated setting for deep
learning.
a. We will support the Singapore University of Social Sciences
(or SUSS) in developing a new city campus. This will enable
SUSS to champion lifelong learning and deliver programmes
with a strong social emphasis, at an accessible location in the
city for learners of all ages.
b. We will also extend the Singapore Universities Trust by 10
years to 31 March 2042 to support the fundraising efforts of
our newer Autonomous Universities, namely SUSS and the
Singapore Institute of Technology. The Trust provides
matching grants for donations, to support our Autonomous
Universities in building up their endowment funds.
77. Sir, the Government is fully committed to supporting the
lifelong employability of our workers. We cannot stop the waves of
technological innovations. Nor can we save every job. But we can
and we will invest in every worker and every Singaporean. We will
equip everyone with the skills to adapt, compete and succeed in a
changing economy.
Page 42 of 98

Supporting our Enterprises in Workforce Transformation
78. And in tandem, we will help our companies to restructure and
transform, and to upgrade their workforce.
79. Companies are best placed to drive business and workforce
transformation. But some may face difficulties doing so due to short-
term cost pressures. And we’ve also received feedback and
suggestions to streamline and improve the way government agencies
administer their support to enterprises.
80. We will therefore introduce a new SkillsFuture Workforce
Development Grant.
a. This will bring together existing schemes administered by
Workforce Singapore and SkillsFuture Singapore, and simplify
the application process.
b. The new grant will also provide higher funding support of up
to 70% for job redesign activities.
Page 43 of 98

81. In addition, we will introduce a redesigned SkillsFuture
Enterprise Credit.
a. The credit is an existing scheme which helps employers
defray the out-of-pocket costs for enterprise and workforce
transformation.
b. But to use the credit, companies have to pay upfront for staff
training, and then wait for reimbursement. And there are
also employers who are not aware of the credit or how it can
be used.
82. So we will redesign the credit to make it more accessible.
a. The revamped credit will operate more like an online wallet.
b. Companies can easily check how much they have. And they
can use the credits to immediately offset out-of-pocket costs
for eligible workforce transformation initiatives and courses,
rather than do so on a reimbursement basis.
Page 44 of 98

83. All companies with at least three resident employees will get a
fresh $10,000 in the redesigned SkillsFuture Enterprise credit. The
new credit will be available in the second half of 2026 and will last for
three years.
84. Meanwhile, companies can continue to use the existing credit.
It was originally due to expire in June this year, but we will extend it
until the new credit is ready.
85. Our tripartite partners play key roles in workforce
transformation. In particular, NTUC’s Company Training Committees
(or CTCs) bring union leaders and employers together to design and
implement workforce upgrading plans.
86. The results have been promising. Since the initiative started in
2019, NTUC has set up more than 2,700 CTCs. Almost four in five are
in small and medium enterprises. Through the NTUC’s CTC grant,
NTUC is supporting more than 400 transformation projects, which
will benefit over 7,000 workers with better work prospects.
Page 45 of 98

87. NTUC would like to start more CTCs and help more companies
transform. We will support them in their efforts.
a. I will set aside additional funding of around $200 million for
NTUC’s CTC grant, to help more companies transform.
b. We will also expand the CTC grant to support employer-led
training that leads to formal qualifications or certifications.
88. Let me show how companies can benefit from all of these
initiatives in a concrete way. Take for example SATS, our main air
cargo handler and airline caterer at Changi Airport.
a. SATS is investing in new equipment and technology to
improve the efficiency of its catering services. It also needs
to train its workers to handle the new equipment, and
redesign workflows and jobs.
b. It can access the additional $10,000 in SkillsFuture Enterprise
Credit. It can tap on the new SkillsFuture Workforce
Development Grant to cover up to 90% of the cost for
reskilling workers, and up to 70% of the cost for redesigning
jobs.
Page 46 of 98

89. SATS has worked with NTUC to form a CTC, and has been
sending its employees for the Work-Study Diploma in Airport
Operations at ITE.
a. The Work-Study Diploma helps these employees acquire
critical skills, including managing operations and resource
planning. And they can go on to take on supervisory roles in
SATS, subject to good performance.
b. Currently, SATS fully sponsors its workers’ out-of-pocket
programme fees. The CTC grant will help to offset some of
these training costs, and provide enhanced funding for
absentee payroll when the trainee is away from work.
c. So these are tangible benefits that companies can enjoy and
we encourage all companies to press on with their workforce
and business transformation.
90. In addition to broader workforce transformation, we will
strengthen our support to nurture and groom Singaporean leaders in
the corporate sector.
a. More and more Singaporeans are taking on leadership roles
in large firms and MNEs operating here.
Page 47 of 98

b. We want to grow this leadership pipeline. We will provide
more support to equip Singaporeans and enable them to
succeed on their own merit.
c. To compete for leadership roles with regional and global
responsibilities, Singaporeans must gain overseas experience
– managing operations in different countries, navigating
diverse cultures and working seamlessly across borders.
d. Currently, government agencies like Enterprise Singapore,
MAS and IMDA have schemes which support companies to
send Singaporeans for overseas work postings and leadership
milestone programmes. The feedback from such schemes
has been positive. So we will set aside more resources to
increase the capacity of these schemes, and provide more
opportunities for promising Singaporean leaders.
e. And the Minister for Manpower will share more at COS.
Page 48 of 98

Strengthening Support for Workers
91. Even with reskilling and upskilling, some workers may face
career setbacks due to economic and business disruptions.
92. We will help workers who lose their jobs to get back on their
feet through the SkillsFuture Jobseeker Support scheme, which will
start from April this year. The scheme will provide financial support
of up to $6,000 over six months, to give our workers assurance as
they undergo training or search for jobs.
93. We will also increase the provision of career matching services.
Today, WSG and its partners, like NTUC’s e2i, run about 30 centres
and touchpoints islandwide, placing about 40,000 jobseekers every
year. The centres work with the jobseekers to shortlist jobs, work on
their resumes, and prepare them for interviews.
94. Besides nationwide programmes, there is benefit in facilitating
job search at a localised level. This will help jobseekers who prefer to
take on jobs near their homes, for example, to balance work and
caregiving responsibilities.
a. Today, North East CDC runs Job Placement Centres for its
district, in partnership with WSG. The centres have yielded
meaningful outcomes.
Page 49 of 98

b. We will expand localised job matching to all CDCs across the
island.
95. We will also strengthen our support for two groups of workers
in this Budget – seniors and ex-offenders.
96. More seniors are staying employed as our population ages. We
want to work with employers to tap on the experience and wisdom
of seniors who are able and wish to continue working.
a. In the immediate term, I will extend the Senior Employment
Credit (or SEC) by one year to end-2026. This will provide
wage offsets for employers who hire Singaporean seniors
aged 60 and above, and earning less than $4,000 a month.
b. In line with the increase in the re-employment age, I will
raise the qualifying age for the highest SEC wage support tier
to 69 years old, from 68 years old today. The Government
will reimburse companies up to 7% of the wages that they
pay to workers aged 69 and above.
Page 50 of 98

97. Later this year, MOM will convene a Tripartite Workgroup on
Senior Employment. The workgroup will undertake a holistic and
longer-term review of senior employment policies, to improve the
employability of seniors, and increase the availability of jobs that
better suit their needs.
98. In line with the recommendations of the Tripartite Workgroup
on Older Workers, we will proceed with the next step of planned CPF
contribution rate increases for senior workers. We will increase the
CPF contribution rates for those aged above 55 to 65 by 1.5
percentage points in 2026.
a. We will also continue to provide the CPF Transition Offset to
employers for another year, to cover half of the increase in
employer contributions for 2026.
b. With this move, senior workers can build up their retirement
savings. And businesses will get continued support from the
Government to cushion the impact on business cost.
99. For ex-offenders, employment is integral to their reintegration
into society. To encourage employers to give ex-offenders a second
chance, we had earlier introduced the Uplifting Employment Credit,
which provides a wage offset to employers hiring ex-offenders.
Page 51 of 98

a. Last year, the credit supported close to 700 employers in
hiring more than 1,500 ex-offenders.
b. To encourage more employers to hire ex-offenders, I will
extend the Uplifting Employment Credit to end-2028.
100. Sir, Singaporeans are at the core of everything we do. We will
do everything we can to develop and realise the potential of all our
people, so that they, in turn, realise their aspirations and dreams for
themselves and their families.
Page 52 of 98

E. Building a Sustainable City
101. Our Singapore Story is one of sustained investment and
continuous improvement. Over time, we have transformed our living
environment into a thriving metropolis and a beautiful home.
102. There’s still much more to do in the years ahead. We will:
a. Upgrade our homes and estates;
b. Refresh and rejuvenate our landscape and infrastructure;
and
c. Importantly, prepare for a future of rising global
temperatures.
103. Addressing the climate crisis requires strong international
collaboration and collective action.
a. Unfortunately, momentum on global climate efforts has
slowed.
b. This will make it harder for all of us to tackle climate change.
Page 53 of 98

c. Despite these challenges, we remain resolute in our
commitment to decarbonisation.
104. We will work with international partners and do our part to
sustain efforts and drive meaningful progress.
a. Just a week ago, we submitted our new climate target to the
United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.
b. We have committed to reducing our emissions to between
45 to 50 million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent by
2035.
c. This will bring us one step closer to realising our longer-term
aim of achieving net zero emissions by 2050.
Greening and Enhancing our Transport Sector
105. I shared earlier about our plans to access more sources of clean
power. That will be critical for us to achieve net zero.
Page 54 of 98

106. Beyond energy, we will also accelerate efforts to decarbonise
our transport sector, which accounts for about 15% of our total
emissions today.
a. Our aim is to have 100% cleaner energy vehicles by 2040,
and we are making good progress towards this target.
b. Last year, around a third of all new cars registered were
Electric Vehicles (or EVs) and almost half were hybrid
vehicles.
c. But adoption of clean energy variants of heavy vehicles has
been slower, due to limited model availability, higher upfront
costs, and less accessible charging infrastructure.
d. To accelerate the adoption of clean heavy vehicles, we will
introduce a new Heavy Vehicle Zero Emissions Scheme and
an Electric Heavy Vehicle Charger Grant. These schemes will
provide incentives for the purchase of a heavy vehicle, and
co-funding of the charging infrastructure.
e. The Minister for Transport will share more at COS.
Page 55 of 98

107. Currently, drivers of internal combustion engine vehicles pay
fuel excise duties. These duties contribute to revenue, and also serve
as a form of usage charge.
a. EVs, while much less pollutive, should not be exempted from
usage charges. We are still considering how to design a
usage-charge mechanism for cleaner energy vehicles. In the
interim, we have introduced the Additional Flat Component
(or AFC) of road tax, for cars and electric light goods vehicles.
b. We will now introduce the AFC for electric heavy goods
vehicles and buses.
c. The AFC will be set at $250 per year for electric heavy goods
vehicles, and $190 and $550 per year for electric minibuses
and large buses respectively. It will be phased in over three
years starting from January 2026, and will be implemented in
full by January 2028.
108. Alongside electrification, increasing the use of mass public
transport is central to reducing emissions, and our vision of a more
connected and car-lite Singapore.
a. Our target is for eight in 10 households to be within a 10-
minute walk from a train station.
Page 56 of 98

b. We are investing over $60 billion in this decade to expand
and renew our rail network, which forms the backbone of
our public transport system.
c. Singaporeans can look forward to the new Jurong Region
Line and Cross Island Line, as well as the extensions of the
Thomson-East Coast Line, Downtown Line, and the Circle
Line. We will continue to study how our rail network can be
expanded.
d. And we are also investing close to an additional $1 billion to
increase and enhance our bus services under the Bus
Connectivity Enhancement Programme.
Securing a Climate-Resilient Future
109. As we do our part to reduce emissions in Singapore, we also
have to assume the worst, and take steps to protect ourselves against
climate risks.
Page 57 of 98

a. If the world continues on a fossil fuel-based development
trajectory over the coming years, global temperatures will
keep rising, and that means we can expect a mean sea level
rise of over one metre by 2100.
b. Coupled with high tides and storm surges, the impact will be
significant, well above one metre, and that means that
around one-third of Singapore will be vulnerable to coastal
flooding.
c. We are therefore developing and implementing plans to
better protect our island.
110. We will employ a range of solutions to do so. These range from
static structures like sea walls, to more specialised measures like
barrages and tidal gates, as well as reclamation to create more land.
a. In the southeastern part of Singapore, we earlier announced
plans to reclaim land to develop “Long Island”. Besides
raising the ground level above rising sea levels, this will
create additional space for homes, as well as new waterfront
parks for outdoor recreation.
Page 58 of 98

b. In addition, PUB will complete site-specific studies for the
Greater Southern Waterfront and Changi this year; studies
for Jurong Island and the Northwest Coast are also
underway. And step by step, we will complete the plans for
coastal protection around the entire island.
111. The actual implementation of measures could stretch over two
decades or longer, starting from the 2030s onwards. But it would be
prudent to set aside funds now to ensure we can proceed with these
major investments, which will benefit current and future generations.
So I will top up the Coastal and Flood Protection Fund by $5 billion.
Page 59 of 98

Embracing Sustainability as a Lifestyle
112. The Government is taking steps to green our energy and
transport sectors, and to protect our island from climate risks.
Singaporeans too, have a part to play in this. Sustainability is
everyone’s responsibility. Individuals have the power to drive change
through their choices and behaviour.
113. To fully realise our green future, we will need to make lifestyle
adjustments and adopt sustainable habits in our daily lives. Every
individual action counts.
a. Last year, we enhanced the Climate Friendly Households
Programme by extending it to all HDB households, and
increased the vouchers quantum to $300 and expanded its
use to a broader range of energy- and water-efficient
products.
b. We will further enhance the programme by providing an
additional $100 worth of Climate Vouchers to HDB
households.
c. We will also extend the Climate Vouchers to all Singapore
Citizen households living in private properties.
Page 60 of 98

d. I encourage all households to make the switch to more
resource-efficient products if you have not done so already.
114. We have come a long way in building today’s Singapore. But
our journey is far from over. Our next decade will be pivotal, as we
accelerate efforts to decarbonise our economy, and enhance the
climate resilience of our built environment. We have clear plans to
do so. And as long as this Government is in charge, we are
committed to delivering them. We will ensure that our island nation
survives even as the oceans rise and we will build a better and
greener future for all.
Page 61 of 98

F. Nurturing a Caring and Inclusive Society
115. A major part of our Forward Singapore agenda is to nurture a
more caring and inclusive society – one where every Singaporean
feels valued and supported, regardless of age, ability, and
circumstance. And in this year’s Budget, I will take further steps
towards these goals.
Improving the Resilience of Vulnerable Families
116. Families play a key role in strengthening our society and
supporting each of us to be the best version of ourselves.
117. Lower-income and vulnerable families face more challenges. So
we will do more to support their efforts to achieve stability, self-
reliance, and mobility.
Page 62 of 98

118. In 2023, we introduced ComLink+.
a. Under this initiative, we are providing more customised
support. Family coaches and volunteer befrienders work
directly with ComLink+ families. Together, they develop
concrete action plans to achieve nearer- and longer-term
goals, like obtaining employment and saving for a home.
b. As the families make progress, they will receive financial top-
ups in the form of ComLink+ Progress Packages. For
example, families can receive up to $30,000 in CPF top-ups if
the adults sustain employment and do their part to save up
for a home.
119. In tandem with ComLink+, we have the Fresh Start Housing
Scheme. It helps second-timer families with children living in public
rental flats to start afresh and own their own homes by buying a
shorter-lease new flat with an additional housing grant.
Page 63 of 98

120. We will enhance Fresh Start.
a. Today, eligible families can receive a $50,000 grant to buy a
new 2-room Flexi or Standard 3-room flat on a shorter lease.
We will increase the grant to $75,000.
b. There are also first-timer families with children living in
public rental flats. They typically face more significant
challenges in life, like coping with medical issues in the
family, or raising children as a single parent. Hence, they
may have difficulties buying a flat with a full 99-year lease,
even as first-timers.
c. To support these families in their home ownership journey,
we will allow them to buy shorter-lease subsidised flats
through Fresh Start.
d. And the Minister for National Development will share more
at COS.
Page 64 of 98

Building a Singapore Made for Families
121. While we provide targeted help for the more vulnerable groups,
we will also do more to support all families across every stage of life.
This begins with marriage and parenthood.
a. We have made significant moves in recent years, including
enhancing the Baby Bonus Cash Gift and the Government’s
contributions to the Child Development Account (or CDA).
b. We have just enhanced paid parental leave to 30 weeks in
total, which will enable parents to spend more time with
their infants.
122. In this Budget, we will further reduce monthly full-day
childcare fee caps in Government-supported preschools.
a. The fees will be capped at $610 for Anchor Operator centres
and $650 for Partner Operator centres.
b. After basic childcare subsidies, a dual-income family will pay
about $300 per child. Lower- and middle-income families
will pay less after additional subsidies.
Page 65 of 98

c. So this reduction will keep full-day preschool expenses
similar to those of the fees for primary school and after-
school student care combined.
123. Couples with more children often worry about additional costs,
because the demands grow with each additional child. We will
introduce a Large Families Scheme to support married couples who
have, or aspire to have, three or more children. This will consist of
three components.
a. First, a $5,000 increase in the Child Development Account
First Step Grant. This will apply to each third and
subsequent child born from today onwards. The CDA
monies can be used to defray preschool and healthcare
expenses of the child and their siblings.
b. Second, a new $5,000 Large Family MediSave Grant. This
will be disbursed into the mother’s MediSave account
again for each third and subsequent child born from today
onwards. And this can be used to offset the mother’s
pregnancy and delivery costs, or her family members’
healthcare expenses.
Page 66 of 98

c. Third, $1,000 in LifeSG credits will be disbursed annually to
families for each of their third and subsequent children,
during the years that the child turns one to six. And this
can help to defray a wide range of household expenses.
124. Let me illustrate what all this means for couples with young
children.
a. Take the example of Elizabeth and Mervin. They have four
children, turning one, four, seven, and eight this year. They
will receive $500 in LifeSG credits for each child. This is to
help them with cost pressures, which I had highlighted
earlier in my speech. They will also receive $1,000 annually
in Large Family LifeSG credits for each of their third and
fourth children, up to when they turn six. That amounts to
$11,000 in benefits from this Budget.
b. Or take another example. Joel and Kristen have two
daughters turning three and five this year. They are
expecting a baby boy in May. Again, they will receive the
one-off $500 in LifeSG credits for each of their children.
Page 67 of 98

c. But with a third child on the way, they will receive the full
benefits of the Large Families Scheme– $5,000 in CDA,
$5,000 in Medisave, and $1,000 every year until the child is
six years old. So as a family, they will receive a total of
$17,500.
Enabling Seniors to Age Well
125. Seniors are an important part of many families. To support our
seniors to live and age well, we have been reviewing and updating
our approach to retirement, healthcare, and caregiving.
126. We have provided seniors more assurance for their retirement
adequacy. We introduced the Majulah Package, to support all
seniors born in 1973 or earlier. And we also enhanced the Workfare
Income Supplement and the Silver Support Scheme.
127. Our priority is to empower our seniors to stay active and
healthy. And that is why we rolled out Healthier SG and Age Well SG.
Page 68 of 98

128. Our plans include creating a more conducive living environment
for our seniors. Through the Enhancement for Active Seniors (or
EASE) programme, we have significantly improved the mobility and
safety of seniors through subsidised senior-friendly fittings and
installations in HDB households.
a. These have been well-received by HDB residents.
b. We will expand EASE for three years up to 2028 to
households living in private properties, so that more
seniors can benefit.
129. As we get older, we are all likely to spend more on healthcare.
To provide more assurance, we will introduce a five-year Matched
MediSave Scheme.
a. The scheme will be made available to eligible lower-income
seniors aged 55 to 70 years old.
b. For every dollar of voluntary top-ups received in their
MediSave accounts, the Government will provide a dollar-
for-dollar matching grant of up to $1,000 per year.
Page 69 of 98

c. So this will complement the existing Matched Retirement
Savings Scheme.
d. Both matched savings schemes will help lower-income
seniors, especially our grandmothers, mothers, and aunts
who were homemakers and caregivers. The contributions
from the Government and their loved ones will better
support their retirement and healthcare needs, and give
them greater assurance as they age.
130. While we will do our best to help our seniors stay healthy, the
reality is that over time more of them will become frail and may
require long-term care.
131. Currently, the Government provides significant subsidies for
long-term care services, particularly for lower- and middle-income
families. This is complemented by CareShield Life, which is our
national long-term care insurance scheme, which provides a monthly
cash payout upon severe disability.
132. We will increase our support for seniors with more severe care
needs and who may require residential care, such as in a nursing
home.
Page 70 of 98

a. We will increase existing subsidies for residential long-term
care services by up to 15 percentage points. We will also
raise the maximum qualifying per capita household income
to $4,800.
b. Many in the older cohorts, especially those born in 1969 or
earlier, do not benefit from CareShield Life, and therefore will
face higher out-of-pocket costs. For this group, we will
introduce additional subsidies of five percentage points.
133. Many seniors prefer to age in place as much as possible,
supported by their families and friends. They can opt for a range of
care options. Some may use care services like day care or home care,
while others rely primarily on family caregiving. We will also enhance
support across the entire spectrum.
a. We will increase existing subsidies for long-term care
services in the home and community by up to 10 percentage
points, and similarly raise the maximum qualifying per
capita household income to $4,800.
b. And we will similarly introduce additional subsidies for
cohorts born in 1969 and earlier by 15 percentage points.
Page 71 of 98

c. We will also increase the subsidies provided under the
Seniors’ Mobility and Enabling Fund to cover the rising costs
of home healthcare items, like adult diapers, and to also
cover additional categories of such items.
134. To better support those who are looking after seniors at home,
we will enhance the Home Caregiving Grant. This is a cash grant
which can be used to offset daily care costs.
a. We will raise the quantum for the Home Caregiving Grant.
The maximum grant will increase to $600 per month, from
$400 today.
b. We will also raise the maximum qualifying per capita
household income for the Home Caregiving Grant to
$4,800, so that more caregivers receive support.
135. We expect at least 80,000 seniors to benefit from the enhanced
long-term care subsidies and grants, which will be implemented from
next year. The enhancements are expected to cost around $300
million in FY2026, and more in future years, as our population
continues to age.
Page 72 of 98

136. Besides higher subsidies, insurance will also play a part in
easing the cost burden of long-term care. With a rapidly ageing
population, we have to work hard to manage the increase in long-
term care costs, and ensure a good mix of funding support between
individual co-payment, government subsidies and insurance. We are
studying this issue carefully, and the Minister for Health will say more
at COS.
Empowering Persons with Disabilities
137. We will also do more to support persons with disabilities, and
ensure they can live with dignity and pursue their aspirations.
138. We have laid good foundations with our investments in Early
Intervention and Special Education, which support persons with
disabilities until they are around 18. But many parents worry about
what happens post-18, after their children graduate from the
structured environment of a Special Education (or SPED) school.
Page 73 of 98

139. We are looking into these post-18 pathways for these students,
and studying how we can provide more meaningful support. In
particular, those who are transiting to work may need more support
to build up their work readiness and adjust to an employment
setting. This includes additional learning support to gain soft skills
and to adapt to new routines.
a. Take 21-year-old Sharlyne Lee, for example. After
graduating from St. Andrew’s Autism School in 2021, she
underwent three months of employment training in
housekeeping and soft skills.
b. She was able to secure a 9-month internship with the Lee Ah
Mooi Old Age Home as a General Housekeeping Assistant,
under supportive supervisors.
c. At the end of the internship, she was offered full-time
employment. And she is now doing well at this Home and
happy to do her part to take care of the residents there.
Page 74 of 98

140. We want to see more stories like her. And so we will invest
more in building the support structures for persons with disabilities
to transit more smoothly from school to work. We will also do more
for those with higher care needs, who need a more structured
environment beyond school to stay active. These are issues which
we will study comprehensively with stakeholders. It will be a multi-
year endeavour, and the Minister for Social and Family Development
and Minister for Education will share more at the COS.
141. Concurrently, we will provide more support for employers, who
may be concerned about the costs and effort needed to redesign jobs
and adapt their workplaces when they hire people with disabilities.
In particular, we will extend the Enabling Employment Credit to end-
2028, to offset wages for persons with disabilities.
142. We will also provide more financial support to persons with
disabilities.
a. Their caregivers may benefit from the increase in the Home
Caregiving Grant which I mentioned earlier.
Page 75 of 98

b. As with the enhancements for seniors, we will increase
subsidy rates for adult disability services, and raise the
maximum qualifying per capita household income for
these subsidies.
c. And we will expand the Matched Retirement Savings
Scheme to include eligible Singaporeans with disabilities
regardless of their age, to help them save for retirement
early.
143. We will also step up efforts by SG Enable and the Special Needs
Trust Company (or SNTC) to encourage families to plan ahead for
their child’s future care needs.
a. Today, caregivers can set up financial care plans and set
aside monies in trust accounts with SNTC, which will manage
the trust monies for the person with disability when their
caregivers pass on.
b. To support these efforts, we will provide a dollar-for-dollar
matching grant for top-ups by lower- and middle-income
caregivers to the trust accounts, up to $10,000.
Page 76 of 98

144. Sir, we are taking concrete steps to strengthen our social
support system. In this Budget, I’ve focused on families, seniors and
their long-term care needs, and persons with disabilities. But we will
continue to review and update other policy areas over time. This is
the Government’s key priority. Because we want to build a Singapore
where we have each other’s backs, where no one is left behind, and
where we continue to stay strong and united as one people.
Page 77 of 98

G. Rallying as One United People
145. Singaporeans across different generations and from all walks of
life have played a vital role in getting us to SG60.
146. For a country, 60 years is a short time. But we have made great
strides over this period, and there is much to be grateful for.
Recognising Singaporeans’ Contributions
147. In this Budget, I will introduce an SG60 package to recognise
the contributions of all Singaporeans, and to share the benefits of
our nation’s progress.
a. First, I will give SG60 Vouchers to all Singaporeans aged 21
and above this year.
i. Each one will receive $600 in SG60 Vouchers.
Singaporean seniors aged 60 and above will receive
$200 more – or $800 in vouchers.
Page 78 of 98

ii. The SG60 Vouchers are like CDC Vouchers. They can be
used at all businesses that accept CDC Vouchers – and
half can be spent at participating supermarkets and the
other half at participating heartland merchants and
hawkers.
iii. We will disburse the SG60 Vouchers across the month
of July. Seniors will claim first, and the rest later.
iv. The People’s Association and the CDCs will share more
details later.
b. Second, I will provide a Personal Income Tax Rebate of 60%,
for the Year of Assessment 2025. This will be capped at
$200, so that the rebate mostly benefits our middle-income
workers.
c. Third, as Minister Indranee had announced earlier, we will
welcome all Singapore Citizen babies born this year with an
SG60 Baby Gift.
Page 79 of 98

Strengthening Our National Identity and Our Community Bonds
148. Our unity is a precious asset, which we must never take for
granted. The experiences of countries around the world show how
easy it is for trust to be eroded, and for societies to become deeply
divided and polarised.
149. We must therefore remain steadfast in nurturing our cohesion
and unity. And in this Budget, we will invest more in strengthening
our cultural core and our community bonds.
150. We will introduce an SG Culture Pass, to encourage
Singaporeans to attend arts and heritage activities.
a. All Singaporeans aged 18 and above this year will receive
$100 worth of credits, which they can use for eligible
activities, like arts and cultural performances, museum
exhibitions, and heritage experiences.
b. The credits will be made available from September this year,
and are valid until the end of 2028.
Page 80 of 98

c. The Minister for Culture, Community and Youth will share
more about upcoming initiatives for the arts and heritage
sector.
151. Our hawker centres and markets are an integral part of our way
of life. This year marks over half a century since we built our first
hawker centres and markets, and the fifth anniversary of the
inscription of our Hawker Culture onto the UNESCO Representative
List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity.
a. To appreciate our hawkers and market stallholders, we will
give each stall in centres managed by Government and
Government-appointed operators a one-time rental
support of $600 this year.
b. We will also allocate up to $1 billion over the next 20 to 30
years to upgrade ageing hawker centres and to build new
centres. This will serve the changing needs of our
stallholders and patrons. The Minister for Sustainability and
the Environment will provide more details at the COS.
Page 81 of 98

152. Sports is another avenue for Singaporeans of all races, religions
and backgrounds to come together. Last year, we cheered on Team
Singapore at the Olympics and Paralympics, rejoicing as our flag was
raised high. We celebrate with them when they do well, and we
encourage them when they face setbacks.
153. We are building new facilities in our heartlands, so that
Singaporeans can enjoy sports closer to where they live. In the
coming years, we will have new sports facilities in Toa Payoh,
Punggol, and Clementi. And we are also upgrading existing facilities
in Pasir Ris, Queenstown, and Hougang.
154. We will provide $100 in SG60 ActiveSG credits for all ActiveSG
members to enjoy sports together with their family and friends. You
can sign up for the free membership at the ActiveSG website, and use
these credits to book ActiveSG facilities and programmes.
155. Our solidarity has seen us through many challenges, including
our fight against Covid-19. We must continue to help our fellow
citizens, and ensure we move forward together, as a people and a
nation.
Page 82 of 98

156. To encourage this spirit of giving, the Government provides
matching funds that multiply the impact of donations. This year, we
will increase our support for the fund-raising efforts of charities and
social causes.
a. We will provide a $100 million top-up to the Cultural
Matching Fund and extend it for five years until the end of
Financial Year 2029.
b. The Government and Tote Board now provide dollar-for-
dollar matching grants for the fund-raising projects of
Singapore-registered charities. We will provide a $270
million top-up to this Enhanced Fund-Raising Programme,
which will be extended for three years until the end of
Financial Year 2027.
Page 83 of 98

c. Many Singaporeans are passionate about social causes but
may not have a specific charity in mind. The Community
Chest, the Collective for a Stronger Society, and the
President’s Challenge provide platforms that help donors
contribute to a range of programmes. We will introduce a
$250 million SG Gives matching grant to provide dollar-for-
dollar matching for donations made through these
platforms. And to encourage sustained giving amongst
larger donors, we will provide a higher $1.50 in matching for
donations with a minimum three-year commitment of at
least $250,000 per year.
d. In total, the Government and Tote Board will set aside more
than $600 million in matching funds to strengthen our spirit
of giving.
157. Earlier, I had shared about the SG60 Vouchers. Those who are
better off may want to donate their vouchers to those with greater
needs. We will facilitate this, and we will share more on how to do
so in due course.
Page 84 of 98

158. Our Self-Help Groups play an important role in addressing the
needs of their respective communities, and in strengthening our
social compact.
a. I thank the Chinese Development Assistance Council,
Yayasan MENDAKI, the Singapore Indian Development
Association, and the Eurasian Association for their many
contributions.
b. We will provide the Self-Help Groups with additional
funding of $60 million over the next five years. This will
enable them to enhance their programmes and better
support their communities.
159. Many businesses have also stepped forward to support their
fellow Singaporeans in this SG60 year, and will be providing special
SG60 discounts and offers. I would like to encourage more
businesses to join in and offer their support.
Page 85 of 98

160. Singapore is at its strongest when we stand together. We may
have our differences. But we are all Singaporeans, living on this tiny
red dot, as one family. When we rally together as one, there is no
challenge we cannot overcome. And this unity is what keeps us
resilient, thriving, and moving forward, even in an uncertain and
troubled world.
Page 86 of 98

H. Fiscal Position
161. A critical enabler for Singapore’s continued success is sound
and healthy public finances.
162. We achieve this by living within our means, and running a
balanced budget over each term of government. This means
spending prudently to meet our immediate and future needs,
ensuring that our revenues cover expenditures, and keeping the tax
burden as low as we can, while not burdening Singaporeans with
debt.
Building A Fairer and More Resilient Tax System
163. In this term of government, we’ve made several significant
changes to our tax system. These revenue moves give us the
resources we need to meet our spending needs, and also make our
fiscal system more progressive.
164. The GST rate increase ensures we have the revenues to look
after our growing number of seniors, even with rising healthcare
costs.
Page 87 of 98

a. Through the Assurance Package, we have cushioned and
delayed the impact of the GST increase for the majority of
Singaporean households.
b. Importantly, we have designed our GST system with
permanent GST vouchers. This ensures that lower-income
households pay a far lower effective GST rate than higher-
income households.
165. We also continue to ensure fairness and improve progressivity
in our tax system. This means that those who are better off will pay
more in taxes to help their fellow citizens.
166. That’s why we raised Property Tax rates for all non-owner-
occupied residential properties, which are mainly investment
properties, as well as for higher-value owner-occupied residential
properties.
a. The Property Tax rate changes coincided with a sharp
increase in the Annual Values of properties, which arose
because of Covid-19-related supply constraints in the
property market.
Page 88 of 98

b. We have therefore revised and updated the Annual Value
bands of owner-occupier Property Tax rates for residential
properties. And that means that more homes now fall within
bands with lower tax rates.
c. To further cushion the impact, we provided Property Tax
rebates. In November last year, we announced another
rebate of up to 20% for owner-occupied residential
properties in 2025, capped at $1,000.
d. Taken together, all HDB owner-occupiers and over 90% of
private residential property owner-occupiers will see lower
Property Taxes this year.
167. The changes we made to our tax system this term have put us
on a stronger fiscal footing. They provide us the resources we need
to better meet our society’s needs – all while keeping our overall
system of taxes and transfers fair and progressive.
Page 89 of 98

FY2024 and FY2025 Fiscal Position
168. Let me turn to our latest fiscal position.
169. For Financial Year 2024, our revenue collections were better
than expected.
170. A key reason is the upside in our Corporate Income Tax.
a. In the past, our Corporate Income Tax collections were quite
stable, at about 3.2% of GDP.
b. But collections increased significantly in the last two years,
and are projected to reach 4.1% of GDP in FY2024, which is
quite significant.
c. This is an unexpected change. Corporate Income Tax is now
the single largest contributor to total revenue – larger than
even the Net Investment Returns Contribution (or NIRC).
Page 90 of 98

d. There are several reasons for this higher Corporate Income
Tax collection. Part of it is due to industry-specific cyclical
factors, for example, in finance and wholesale trade. It could
also be due to changes in the investment decisions of
multinational enterprises, as they seek out stable and
reliable centres like Singapore to put more of their high-end
activities.
171. While our revenues have increased, we have also spent more
on Singaporeans. For example, we provided $3 billion in MediSave
top-ups in December last year, which will help to cushion the
increase in MediShield Life premiums to fund better coverage and
higher payouts.
172. We also earmarked resources for projects to boost economic
competitiveness, including developing critical infrastructure like
Changi Terminal 5, and for the energy transition.
173. Overall, I expect to end FY2024 with a surplus of $6.4 billion, or
0.9% of GDP.
174. For FY2025, I expect a similar fiscal position, with a surplus of
$6.8 billion, or 0.9% of GDP.
Page 91 of 98

Medium-Term Fiscal Outlook
175. We will continue to keep an eye on our medium-term fiscal
projections.
176. In 2023, the Ministry of Finance released an Occasional Paper
showing that we expect to keep our fiscal position roughly balanced
until 2030. For now, this remains our assessment. And let me
explain.
177. There is still considerable uncertainty about how Government
revenues will unfold over the coming decades.
a. At this juncture, it is too early to determine if the recent
increase in Corporate Income Tax collections is temporary or
a lasting trend.
b. There could be some additional Corporate Income Tax
revenue from FY2027 onwards, with the implementation of
the Domestic Top-up Tax, which will raise the large MNEs’
effective tax rate to 15%. But how much revenue we will get
from this change depends on whether these MNEs continue
to find it attractive to remain in Singapore.
Page 92 of 98

c. Moreover, there is now great uncertainty about the global
tax environment. The new US administration has withdrawn
from the earlier consensus forged by the OECD and other
countries. And it remains to be seen what further moves the
US and other major economies will make in this new
geopolitical environment.
d. So we will assess our options as global tax developments
unfold, and adjust our policies where necessary.
178. Meanwhile, we are certain that expenditure will continue to
rise. Government spending has been rising steadily over the years
from about 15% of GDP to about 18%.
a. And based on historical trends, we can expect our spending
to go up to 20% of GDP by around 2030.
b. With growing global uncertainties, and the need to invest
more in our workers, and better support our rapidly ageing
population, there will be added pressure to raise spending –
possibly at a pace that exceeds previous increases.
Page 93 of 98

179. So we will continue to monitor fiscal trends closely, and update
our medium-term projections. In the meantime, we will spend
responsibly and ensure resources are allocated effectively. If and
when there are near-term fiscal upsides, we will put the resources to
good use, including for our social and economic needs. Ultimately,
we will always ensure that all Singaporeans benefit from our nation’s
progress.
Page 94 of 98

I. Conclusion
180. Mr Speaker, 60 years in Chinese culture marks a full cycle of life.
So in this SG60 year, we will complete one cycle, and we will enter a
new phase of nation-building.
181. We must brace ourselves for new challenges in this next phase.
There are dark clouds over the horizon. The world is in turmoil, and
the situation is likely to get worse in the coming years.
182. But this is not the first time that Singapore has had to confront
tough external circumstances. We’ve done so repeatedly over the
last six decades, and so we can draw confidence from what we’ve
been through together.
183. Consider the experiences of our pioneers. Like Mr Yau Jon
Kiang, who is 75 this year and a resident in Yew Tee. In our early
years of nation-building, he and his wife worked long hours in a
canteen at the Tanjong Gul Camp at Tuas. They put food on the table
for the SAF, as well as their own young sons at home. Times were
tough, but they persevered.
184. Their never-say-die spirit lives on in the family.
Page 95 of 98

185. Jon Kiang’s son, Joses, forged his own path to become a naval
engineer with the SAF. He endured long stints at sea to serve and
defend our nation. Determined to improve his family’s future, he
pursued part-time studies and earned an engineering degree, while
juggling work and family responsibilities.
186. His children are now entering adulthood, at 17 and 22. They
have grown up in a more affluent Singapore, but they too face their
share of challenges.
a. His daughter Jamie started at Singapore Polytechnic just as
the Covid-19 pandemic hit.
b. Her school went online, and her daily activities were
disrupted. But she did not let that get her down. She
adapted and pushed forward, just as her father and
grandfather had done before her.
c. I met Jamie and some of her fellow youth leaders back in
2022, after we had battled Covid-19 for two and a half years;
they were optimistic, resilient and full of ideas about how
they can contribute.
Page 96 of 98

d. Since then, Jamie has graduated from Singapore Polytechnic
as Valedictorian.
e. Today, she is pursuing her Bachelor’s in Integrative Studies at
SMU, while leading a non-profit to empower and support
youths in tech. She hopes to work in the philanthropic
sector to make a greater impact after graduation.
187. This is what the Singapore spirit is about.
188. At every turn, we have chosen determination over despair,
innovation over stagnation, and solidarity over division.
189. Every generation has carved a path through its challenges, and
paved the way for the next generation to go even further.
190. Budget 2025 sets out clear plans for us to continue this journey
with confidence.
a. It is a Budget for the future – tackling immediate challenges,
while laying the groundwork for a stronger, more resilient
tomorrow.
Page 97 of 98

b. It is a Budget for all Singaporeans. Because when Singapore
thrives, every citizen benefits. Every Singaporean is
supported from birth to old age, with more support given to
those with less. No one is left behind.
c. Importantly, this is a Budget shaped together with all
Singaporeans – advancing our Forward Singapore efforts to
build the Singapore we want, and empowering each of us to
contribute towards our shared future.
191. The road ahead will not be without challenges, but I am
confident that our best days lie ahead of us. Together, we can keep
Singapore an evergreen oasis of stability, hope, and opportunity for
all. So let us move onward together for a better tomorrow.
192. Mr Speaker, I beg to move.
Page 98 of 98