The Supplementary Retirement Scheme (SRS) is a voluntary scheme to encourage individuals to save for retirement, over and above their CPF savings. Contributions to SRS are eligible for tax relief. Investment returns are tax-free before withdrawal and
    only 50% of the withdrawals from SRS are taxable at retirement. Find out more on
Tax on SRS withdrawals
.
You can only have
1 SRS account
at any point in time and contributions to the SRS account must be made by
^
31 Dec 2025 to qualify for SRS Relief (subject to overall
personal income tax relief cap
of $80,000) for the Year of Assessment (YA) 2026. Opening SRS accounts with more than 1 SRS operator is an offence and there may be penalty imposed.
^
You may check with your SRS bank operator about the cut-off date for SRS contributions.
On this page:
Opening an SRS account
Who is eligible to open an SRS account
Singapore Citizens, Singapore Permanent Residents (SPRs) and foreigners who:
Are at least 18 years of age;
Are not an undischarged bankrupt;
Are not having a mental disorder; and are capable of managing yourself and your affairs;
Does not already have an SRS account (including one that has been suspended) with the same or another operator;
Does not have a pending application with another SRS operator to open an SRS account; and
Does not previously have an SRS account with the same or another SRS operator and all the monies in the account have been withdrawn -
i. On medical grounds; or
ii. On or after reaching the statutory retirement age prevailing at the time of your first contribution.
How to open an SRS account
SRS accounts are managed by 3 bank operators:
DBS Group Holdings Ltd
Overseas-Chinese Banking Corporation (OCBC) Ltd
United Overseas Bank (UOB) Ltd
You may approach the banks listed above to open an SRS account (you will need to acknowledge/confirm that you do not have another SRS account with other SRS operators before proceeding with the application) and start to contribute.
Documents required for opening an SRS account:
Identity card/Passport
Completed
Declaration Form for SRS (For Foreigners)
(DOC, 220KB)
Changing of SRS bank operator
You may change the SRS bank operator of your SRS account by obtaining the “Transfer of Account Form” from the new SRS operator, who will then liaise with your existing operator to effect the transfer.
SRS contributions and tax relief
All SRS contributions must be made by 31 Dec of the year or as required by your SRS operator, to be eligible for SRS tax relief in the following YA following the year of contribution. You are advised to check with your SRS bank operator for the cut-off date for
    SRS contributions.
For each YA, a
personal income tax relief cap
of $80,000 applies to the total amount of all tax reliefs claimed (including relief on SRS contributions). There will be no refund for SRS contributions made. Please evaluate whether
    you would benefit from tax relief before making your SRS contributions.
Making SRS contributions
You and/or your employer (on your behalf) may contribute
at any time, and as often as you like
, subject to the maximum SRS contribution for the year. Contributions must be made in cash.
However, SRS contributions cannot be made if you start withdrawing from your SRS account:
At or after the statutory retirement age that was prevailing when you made your first SRS contribution; or
On medical grounds.
Contributions made by your employer to your SRS account on your behalf constitute part of your remuneration. Such contributions are taxable and must be declared by your employer in your Form IR8A for the relevant YA. You will be granted tax relief for such contributions.
Yearly maximum SRS contributions
Singapore Citizens/Singapore Permanent Residents
Foreigners
$15,300
$35,700
For foreigners: Annual declaration required by SRS bank operator
You are required to declare your foreigner status by submitting the
Declaration Form for SRS (For Foreigners)
(DOC, 220KB) yearly for the SRS operator to calculate your maximum SRS contribution for the year.
Updating SRS Bank Operator Upon Obtaining Singapore Citizenship or Permanent Residency
If you become a Singapore Citizen or SPR during the year, please update the SRS bank operator as your maximum contribution amount will have to be recalculated even if you have already made contributions for that
        year. The SRS bank operator will re-compute your SRS contribution cap for the year on a pro-rata basis.
Penalties may be imposed for excess contributions if a wrongful declaration has been made to the SRS bank operator. For example, if you are a SPR at the time of contribution, it would be incorrect to declare yourself as a foreigner.
If you require more information on SRS, you may refer to the
SRS booklet
available on the Ministry of Finance’s website.
Qualifying for SRS tax relief
You will be allowed SRS tax relief in the YA following the year of contribution, provided you are a
tax resident
for that YA. However, a personal income tax relief cap of $80,000 applies to the total amount of all tax reliefs claimed (including relief on SRS contributions).
You will
not
be allowed SRS tax relief if:
Your SRS account is suspended as at 31 Dec of the year of contribution; or
The amount of such contribution is withdrawn from your SRS account in the same year of contribution.
Example 1: Contribution and withdrawal were made in the same year
Scenario 1: Contribution made before withdrawal in the same year
Ms Jasmine, 40 years old, first made a contribution of $10,000 and then made a withdrawal of $8,000 in the same year. SRS relief will not be granted on the amount of $8,000 she contributed and withdrawn, and there
will not
be any tax
    and penalty on the amount withdrawn. SRS relief of $2,000 will be granted to her.
If Ms Jasmine made a withdrawal of $15,000 instead of $8,000, there will be no tax relief allowed on the $10,000 contributed, as the amount withdrawn exceeds the amount contributed in the year. The remaining amount of $5,000 ($15,000 - $10,000) will be
    subject to tax and a 5% penalty.
Scenario 2: Withdrawal made
before
contribution in the same year
Ms Jasmine, 40 years old, first made a withdrawal of $15,000 and then made a contribution of $10,000 in the same year. The withdrawal of $15,000 will be brought to tax in full and a 5% penalty will be imposed. Subsequently, the SRS contribution made after
    will be allowed SRS tax relief.
Amount of SRS tax relief
If you are eligible for the SRS tax relief, the relief amount is based on the
actual amount of SRS contribution
made by you and/or your employer (on your behalf) in the preceding year.
Example 2: SRS contribution made
Mr Tan, a foreigner, has made a contribution of $20,000 to his SRS account in 2025. In YA 2026, the SRS bank operator will transmit the contribution information to IRAS and SRS tax relief of $20,000 will be included.
How to claim SRS tax relief
You
do not need
to make a claim in your Income Tax Return as it will be allowed automatically based on the information provided by the SRS operator. The SRS tax relief will be reflected in the “Deductions, Tax Relief and Rebates” section when you e-File.
For Foreigners and Singapore Permanent Residents
If you are leaving your employment and leaving Singapore, and wish to claim the SRS tax relief on your contributions made in the year of departure, you must obtain a
SRS statement of contributions/withdrawals (for tax clearance)
(DOC, 90KB) from the SRS bank operator specifically for the purpose of
        tax clearance.
FAQs
I am a foreigner/SPR leaving Singapore and seeking tax clearance. How should I inform IRAS on my SRS contribution/withdrawal?
If you are a foreigner or SPR seeking tax clearance and you have made SRS contributions or withdrawals in the current year, you must obtain a
SRS Statements of Contributions/Withdrawal
(DOC, 90KB) from the SRS bank operator.
The SRS bank operator or you will have to send the completed form to IRAS for processing. IRAS will take into account your SRS contributions or withdrawals in your tax assessments.
I was holding a FIN card and now, I am a SPR in the later part of the year and contribution has been made in earlier part of the year, what will be my contribution cap?
A pro-rated contribution cap applies. You should contact the SRS operator to have your contribution cap recalculated.
If a person is a non-SPR in the current year but becomes a SPR in the following year, what will his/her SRS contributions cap be in the following year?
His/her SRS contribution cap in the following year would be $15,300, which is the cap applicable to Singaporean/SPRs.
Can I obtain a refund of my SRS contributions made in 2025, if for YA 2026, the total amount of personal reliefs which I can claim is more than $80,000, even without any tax relief on my SRS contributions?
There will be no refund for SRS contributions made. As such, please take note of the overall personal income tax relief cap and evaluate whether you would benefit from the tax relief on your SRS contributions, and make an informed decision.
Documents
Declaration Form for SRS (For Foreigners) (DOC, 220KB)
Pages
Tax on SRS withdrawals